This is our short movie on
Naive Bayes Classifiers.
I'm David Forsyth from the University
of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
So now what we're going to do is build
a classifier out of a probability model.
And at some level this is
a completely natural thing to do.
So here is the way to do this, for
the test example x I am going to report
the class y that has the highest value of
the posterior probability of the label
condition on x, that's the p(y|x).
If the largest value is achieved
by more than one class,
I could choose randomly
from that set of classes.
Now that in a very strong sense
is an optimal classifier.
The problem with it is
I don't know p(y|x).
Now when you are presented with
a problem about posteriors it is
pretty natural to invoke Bayes Rule and
see what happens.
And of course, I can apply Bayes rule and
Bayes rule is going to tell me the p(y|x)
is going to be p(x|y) p(y) over p(x).
Now because I'm looking for the largest
p(y|x), I could even ignore p(x).
So I could write,
p(y|x) is proportional to p(x|y) p(y).
Problem, where does p(x|y) come from?
So I had one distribution I didn't know
and I've turned it into a product of two
other distributions I don't know and
I need to deal with that.
p(y|x) is likely quite complicated as
well, because x might be high dimension.
So I might have a couple of thousand
dimensions in my measurement of the object
and building high dimensional
probability distributions is no joke.
Now there's another very important point
here which is getting the posterior right
may not matter all that much.
So here is some fake data.
And on the horizontal is
the single feature x,
so it's a one dimensional
feature vector if you like.
On the vertical is the probability, so
Class 1 has this extremely
weird probability distribution.
Ignore these smooth gaussians.
Class 2 has another extremely weird
conditional probability distribution.
So p(x|y) is horrid.
But to classify this data accurately,
all you really need to know
is that p(x| Class 2) is big
on that side and
p(x|Class 1) is big on that side.
You don't need to know
the horrid details of p(x|y).
So getting p(y|x) right probably
doesn't matter all that much.
What you need to know accurately
is which one is bigger.
You don't really need to know the value.
Now, what I'm going to do is make
the following extremely creative,
totally inaccurate assumption.
I am going to assume that
p(x|y) is the product
of each feature, the j, of p(xj|y).
So each feature is conditionally
independent given the label.
Now, this assumption,
it's very important to understand that
this assumption is hardly every true.
You really don't run into data like this
all that often, but it's extremely useful.
And the reason it's extremely useful,
is I can turn it into a classifier easily.
And those classifiers
are extremely effective.
The assumption is often
referred to as Naive Bayes.
It's naive because people who don't
understand probability at all might be
inclined to write this out and
then you would laugh at it.
The term naive is seriously unfair
because it's actually a very creative,
useful, and powerful assumption,
but we're stuck with the name.
Now let me look at what
this assumption does.
It says my posterior is
the class conditional
times the prior of the class
over this prior of x,
that's this product.
And of course, I don't really care
about the pi(x), so it's proportional.
Why do I not care about the pi(x)?
because it's the same for a particular x,
doesn't change with the label,
so it doesn't affect which one is largest.
So now my p(y|x) is a product
of individual class conditional densities.
Which are one-dimensional
condition on y and a prior on y.
Now what I'm going to do is take
my original classification rule,
which was choose y such
that p(y|x) is largest, and
modify it very slightly by replacing
that p(y|x), with a model.
Which is the object obtained
by assuming that all the y's
are conditionally independent,
and then ignoring the p(x).
So what we did on the previous slide.
And I'm going to choose the y,
such that, that product is largest.
Now this rule, in this form,
is not very good.
And the reason it isn't very good is
each of these p's is a small number.
If you multiple a whole bunch
of small numbers together,
you get a really tiny number.
And you might very well find yourself
in the position of comparing
a bunch of numbers that are so
tiny your computer can't tell
the difference between them and 0.
That's the problem.
There is an easy solution.
The logarithm is monotonic, so
a greater than b means log a is greater
than b, so I can change my rule.
And my rule now becomes take the log, so
choose y such that the sum of the logs of
the class-conditional density for
each feature.
Remember these are now one-dimensional
densities, so life is much easier.
Plus the log of the prior, choose
the class such that that is largest.
Now I have to build models.
So how do I actually get a model?
Well, these are one dimensional densities,
one for each feature dimension.
There are all sorts of parametric
models for one dimensional densities.
I could use a normal distribution,
I could use a Poisson distribution,
I could use an exponential
dependent distribution,
I could even build a simple histogram and
use that as a parametric.
So and we'll look into a couple
of those in a few slides.
This, the prior,
is also relatively easy to model.
What I could do is simply count
the number of examples of each class,
divide by the total number of examples,
and then I've got a prior for each label.
Under some circumstances,
if I'm fairly confident
that the labels occur evenly,
I might even just ignore the whole thing.
Why?
Because I'm fairly
confident that the labels occur evenly,
log p(y) must be the same for each y.
The fact that it isn't exactly the same
for each y is some weird feature to
do with my training data, so I might
just leave out the log of the prior.
So let's think about the models of
the class conditional densities.
Simple parametric models work
really well for p(xj|y).
So I could use a normal distribution for
each in turn, for
each possible y using training data.
How do I get the parameters?
Maximum likelihood.
So I just compute the mean and
the standard deviation using maximum
likelihood or the mu and sigma using
maximum likelihood and I'm done.
If you have measurements, for example,
that are counts,
you're probably going to feel an urge
to bring on a Poisson distribution
which should be a natural thing to do.
If you had a (0, 1) variable,
you might use a Bernoulli distribution.
Basically the probability of 1 and
the probability of 0.
How do you get those probabilities?
Count.
If it was a discreet variable,
you might try a multinomial model.
Now, a thing to understand and
I'll make a fuss about in a second,
is these class conditional models
do not necessarily need to
be accurate models of the density for
the classifier to work well.
So for example, one thing that works
rather nicely in some problems, is I could
take, a continuous feature, I could
quantized it to a fixed set of values and
then I could fit amount multinomial model.
That turns out to be quite
effective under some circumstances.
The models don't have to be good.
So I've shown this before,
here is Class 1's,
class conditional density,
for a one dimensional thing.
You see, I can't even follow
a straight line with an Apple pencil,
but that's old edge and dry rot, I hope.
Here's the class conditional density for
another feature.
There are horrid structures over here.
Imagine I take the green
class conditional density and
I simply replace it With
a rather shaky normal model.
I take the red class
conditional density and
I replace that with a rather
shaky normal model.
You should notice that as a model
of the class conditional density,
these normal models
are really pretty shaky.
They're not good.
They don't capture the main features,
which is lots of different bumps,
multi-modal, etc., etc.
But from the point of view of what
information we really want to extract from
the data, which is when you're
on that side it's red and
when you're on that side
it's green of this point.
Those normal distributions do just fine.
It's an important point.
Your class conditional models might be
quite bad as probability models and
still yield rather a good
naive Bayes classifier.
This infuriates and
frustrates people doing exercises.
It has two consequences.
One is the models that you think should
work, might not work all that well.
The other is models that you think
are awful, might work extremely well.
In practice, high dimensional data
seems to exaggerate this effect.
You should remember that
naive Bayes is really good at
dealing with high dimensional data.
And, in particular, when you deal
with high dimensional data your class
conditional models don't have to be
all that good for things to get away.
What you really need to be good
at is knowing when Class 2 is
more likely than Class 1, not the details
of what Class 2 does with its axis.
Okay, so let's do a worked example.
I got a breast tissue dataset from the UC
Irvine Machine Learning Data Repository.
It contains measurements of a variety of
properties of six different classes of
breast tissue.
So you want to build an evaluate a naive
Bayes classifier to distinguish between
the classes automatically from
the measurements So I used R for
this example because I could use packages.
You will notice in this course I spend
relatively little time telling you how to
build software because I may not
know under some circumstances and
I certainly don't care.
What I'm trying to do is show you
how to obtain tools and use them.
So the main difficulty here is
finding the right packages,
understanding the documentation and
checking that they're right.
It's easy enough to write the source for
this, this really isn't very difficult to
do, but why would you do something
that somebody else had already done.
I used a package called Caret,
which is quite good at things like
trying to split some cross-validation.
And I used a naive Bayes classifier
which is in a package called klaR.
So I separated out the test set which
was approximately 20% of the cases for
each class and then I trained with
cross validation on the remainder.
I used a normal model for each feature.
And I got a class confusion matrix on
the test set that looked like this.
So here are different kinds of tissue adi,
car, con, fad, gla, mas.
True labels of it are here.
Predicted labels are there.
And you can see the diagonal here
are where most of the big values are.
So we're doing okay.
The accuracy is 52%.
In the training data, the classes are
nearly balanced, in those six classes, so
the chance is about 17%,
so I'm doing okay here.
To get really accurate numbers I
should average over test train splits,
and I haven't done that.